How to create Euca-ready Linux Image from ISO 

1. Go to NC & terminate/stop instances & also stop NC.

2. Check properly whether instances are fully stopped or not.

3. Follow the instructions:


3.1  Use the QEMU disk utility to create a disk image. In the following example, we create a 5GB disk 
       image:



       qemu-img create -f raw centos6.4_My.img 6G

 

3.2. Use the parted utility to set the disk label.



       parted centos6.4_My.img mklabel msdos



3.3 Use virt-install to start a new virtual machine installation, as in the following example (note the example has been broken into multiple lines for formatting purposes):



virt-install --name centos6.4_my --ram 2048 --os-type linux --os-variant rhel6 -c /tmp/CentOS-6.3-x86_64-bin-DVD1.iso --disk

path=/tmp/centos6.img,device=disk,bus=virtio

--graphics vnc,listen=0.0.0.0 --force


3.4 Use the VNC client of your choice to connect to the new virtual machine and complete the installation.


3.5 Modify the following libvirt.xml template to create the VM and run virsh create <libvirt.xml>".


<domain type='kvm'>

<name>eucalyptus-centos</name>

<os>

<type>hvm</type>

</os>

<features>

<acpi/>

</features>

<memory>1073741</memory>

<vcpu>1</vcpu>

<devices>

<!--<emulator>/usr/bin/kvm</emulator>-->

<disk type='file'>

<source file='/tmp/centos6.img' />

<target dev='hda'/>

</disk>

<interface type='bridge'>

<source bridge='br0'/>

<model type='virtio'/>

</interface>

<graphics type='vnc' port='-1' autoport='yes' listen='0.0.0.0'/>

</devices>

</domain>

6. Connect to the virtual machine using your VNC client of choice and make the following configuration changes:

a) Modify the /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-eth0 file and set the ONBOOT option to

"yes". For example:


DEVICE="eth0"

BOOTPROTO="dhcp"

#HWADDR="B8:AC:6F:83:1C:45"

IPV6INIT="yes"

MTU="1500"

NM_CONTROLLED="yes"

ONBOOT="yes"

TYPE="Ethernet"

UUID="499c07cc-4a53-408c-87d2-ce0db991648e"

PERSISTENT_DHCLIENT=1


b) Enable a serial console on the virtual machine by adding the following option to the end of the /boot/grub/menu.lst:

console=ttyS0


c) Remove the quiet option from the kernel parameters and the grub menu splash image in the

/boot/grub/menu.lst file. For example:


# grub.conf generated by anaconda

#

# Note that you do not have to rerun grub after making changes to this file

# NOTICE: You have a /boot partition. This means that

#

all kernel and initrd paths are relative to /boot/, eg.

#

root (hd0,0)

#

kernel /vmlinuz-version ro root=/dev/sda2

#

initrd /initrd-[generic-]version.img

#boot=/dev/sda

default=0

timeout=5

#splashimage=(hd0,0)/grub/splash.xpm.gz

hiddenmenu

title Eucalyptus (2.6.32-358.18.1.el6.x86_64)

root (hd0,0)

kernel /vmlinuz-2.6.32-358.18.1.el6.x86_64 ro

root=UUID=062b9c31-95f3-424f-8b47-35107cfdfc08 rd_NO_LUKS rd_NO_LVM

LANG=en_US.UTF-8 rd_NO_MD SYSFONT=latarcyrheb-sun16 crashkernel=auto

KEYBOARDTYPE=pc KEYTABLE=us rd_NO_DM rhgb

initrd /initramfs-2.6.32-358.18.1.el6.x86_64.img



d) Add the following line to the /etc/sysconfig/network file to disable the zeroconf route, which can

interfere with access to the metadata service:

NOZEROCONF=yes


e) Edit the /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules file and remove all entries for the existing

network interface. Make sure that you delete all entries before terminating the virtual machine and registering it
 with Eucalyptus.



7. Eucalyptus instances use cloud-init to specify actions to run on your instance at boot time, which can          
     be passed using
 the userdata parameter. To install and conifgure cloud-init on your instance:


      a) Install cloud-init:

        # rpm -Uvh http://download.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/6/x86_64/epel-release-6-8.noarch.rpm
        # yum install cloud-init

      b) By default, cloud-init uses ec2-user as the log-in user. Add ec2-user to your instance and give it   
          appropriate sudo permissions:

        # adduser ec2-user
        # passwd ec2-user

      c) Run visudo and add the following entries at the bottom of the sudoers file:

         ## Allow root to run any commands anywhere

           root   ALL=(ALL)    ALL

          ec2-user     ALL=(ALL)    NOPASSWD: ALL


You've now installed a distribution from an ISO and created a Eucalyptus-ready image that can be registered with Eucalyptus.







Now go to Front end machine, type lvdisplay on terminal, you will see the path of volume attached 
to the instance just like below & exceute in following sequence[To copy the img file into the attached volume]

[root@localhost Downloads]# dd if=centos-6.4-x86_64.img of=/dev/euca-ebs-storage-vg-vol-0D013CDE/euca-vol-0D013CDE bs=1M

6144+0 records in

6144+0 records out

6442450944 bytes (6.4 GB) copied, 151.13 s, 42.6 MB/s










Command for SFTP for copying remote machine file to local machine

[root@ip-10-10-1-77 ~]# scp -p root@192.168.2.20:/root/Downloads/bitnami-lampstack-5.4.23-0-linux-x64-installer.run /root/Downloads/
The authenticity of host '192.168.2.20 (192.168.2.20)' can't be established.
RSA key fingerprint is 91:b2:0a:0a:a6:75:1f:e1:5a:be:46:1d:3e:b9:17:bd.
Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no)? Yes
Warning: Permanently added '192.168.2.20' (RSA) to the list of known hosts.
root@192.168.2.20's password: 

bitnami-lampstack-5.4.23-0-linux-x64-installer.run   100%   68MB  6.8MB/s  00:10 
